---
layout: python
title: Classes
date: 2022-06-10
image: banana
status: draft
InitialCode: |
  x = 1
  s = "You stink"

  print(s) 
---
Well done Alban - in the last lesson you learnt:
1. You can assign values to variables
2. Variables are probably useful, but we aren't sure why yet. You'll find out soon that you'll need them all over the place to help you solve problems
3. Variables have names

This time round we are going to ramp it up a little bit and talk about classes. Once you get these under your belt you are away.

Until now you've been whacking code into the code window and this is fun, but if we want stuff to be useful and start making games we need to start getting serious and organising stuff. To do this we use something called a "class".

A class something we code to describe something. When we want to make an actual thing we can create an instance of something by saying "here is my classification of what I want - now magic it from thin air".

That's right, by writing computer programs we become wizards. We create things where things were not originally. Lets try our apple example again, but this time with classes.

## Without classes
_Me_: I want 5 apples please.

_Shopkeeper_: Sure here you go.

## With classes
_Me_: I hereby declare a classification of things called "fruit". A fruit can be of a type called apple, orange or a hearty durian. It has a colour, weight, cost and I can eat it, throw it in the air, buy it or sell it. 

_Me_: Hey, computer wizard thing - create me 5 fruit and make them apples please.

_Python_: There you go 5 apples for you.

_Shopkeeper_: Hey - where did you get them from?

Shopkeepers do not like wizards just creating fruit out of nothing.

## Defining a class
A class is defined by using the word, wait for it, class.

Then a name you want to give it. It is worth trying to give the class a name that is meaningful, because you are going to need to remember it.


~~~python
x = 5
~~~

Or a string (text not rope)
~~~python
x = "Hi Stinky"
~~~

Or lists of stuff by using square brackets and commas
~~~python
x = [1,1,2,3,5,8,13]
~~~

Or weird things called tuples - things separated by commas and usually put into round brackets
~~~python
x = 1,2
y = (8,1,2)
~~~

## What to do

This is where we get a bit more freeform. 

Google some stuff (for instance "python types") see if any of it makes sense.
Maybe look at the wikipedia page for tuples - get used to it being a bit maths like.

Mess with variables. See if you can do some funky things with them and send me screen shots to show off. For instance I did this:
~~~python
s = "Alban is ace"
s = s + " and "
s = s + "Penny is brilliant. "
s = s * 2000
print(s) 
~~~

Next time we'll look at classes and start to use some of the things we mind mapped out for our game.